what is cc in bike or Engine Displacement
-----------------------------------------------
cc means Cubic Centimeters. This is one of the specifications of an engine. This is not for just bike but any engine that has a cylinder and piston.

cc is the measurement unit for the displacement of the engine. The displacement of an engine is the “Volume” that is displaced by the piston.

1000 cc = 1 Liter.

1cc = 1ml. So, a 350 cc bike’s engine cylinder has 350ml of volume.

This is the volume that is displaced or moved by the piston.
This volume is measured in Liters for larger engine and in Cubic Centimeters for smaller engines.

Normally the larger the displacement the more powerful the engine and more fuel it will require. 
However there are other factors as well that govern the power of engine and speed of a vehicle.

The bottom end of the motion is called the Bottom Dead Center (BDC) and the top most point
 where it stops and comes back down is called the Top Dead Center(TDC).
 
TDC - BDC = stroke
 
This volume directly corresponds to the power the each cylinder can produce and hence a very important factor in deciding the power of the engine.
Why ? because, the more volume of air the engine can hold, the more fuel can be sent in to burn and hence more power that can be generated.
 
So , the Volume of a engine cylinder V = pi * r^2 * ( TDC - BDC)

 suspension system
 -------------------------
When we talk about driving of any vehicle, comfort of both driver and passengers is very important thing.
 Suspension do this work. The main work of suspension system is to isolate the vehicle and the passenger to 
 the road shock and vibration, so they will enjoy a comfortable ride.

For e.g. In an ideal condition if a vehicle travels over any kind of surface then 
there will be no force felt while sitting inside it, this is what is the basic role of suspension.
Any system used in vehicle to reduce road shocks and vibration known as suspension system. Springs, shock absorber torsion bar etc. 


Bharat stage Emission standards (BSES)
--------------------------------------------
The Supreme Court had ruled on October 24 last year that no BS-IV vehicle would be sold with effect from April 1, 2020.



Bharat Stage Emission Standards are emission 
regulations implemented by the government to keep a check on emissions from motor vehicles. Introduced first in 2000.

The Central Pollution Control Board which falls under the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change sets
the standards to regulate emissions from vehicles in India.

Earlier till BS 4 only CO, HC and NOx were monitored but under Bharat Stage 6 regulations in addition to NOx, CO and HC content. 
PM 2.5 ,PM 10 and NMHC(Non Methane Hydrocarbons) will also be regulated . Needless to say with stringent rules and regulations.

What is the difference between BS4 and BS6 fuel?

The major difference between the existing BS-IV and forthcoming BS-VI norms is the presence of sulphur in the fuel.
While the BS-IV fuels contain 50 parts per million (ppm) sulphur, the BS-VI grade fuel only has 10 ppm sulphur content.
Also, the harmful NOx from diesel cars can be brought down by nearly 70%. In the petrol cars, they can be reduced by 25%.


What is Suspension:
Any system used in vehicle to reduce road shocks and vibration known as suspension system. Springs, shock absorber torsion bar etc. are 
components of suspension system. 
 Suspension system also provide the vehicle stability in running condition.
 
 You are driving at 100kmph, suddenly you hit a pothole. You car stumbles for a moment, you thought you have made your last mistake and
 suddenly the car regains its posture and continues.

The main two basic function of suspension system are:

1. First to reduce the shocks generated by the irregularity of roads.
 
2. The other one is to reduce vibration of generated by the running condition of engine, gear box etc.
