Finacial Planning
--------------------
It is the process of turning your Needs and Wants into GOALS.

Goals are planned expenses in different point of life.

MWPA Act in insurance company: 
Who can opt for insurance under MWPA (Married Women Property Act)? If you are a resident of India and a married man, you can take an insurance policy under the MWPA. 
You can also purchase the policy if you are a widower or a divorcee in such a scenario, you may name your children as beneficiaries.


designation: Corporate Salary Relationship Manager.
rashid.anwar@idfcfirstbank.com
9591536931

https://www.maxlifeinsurance.com/


Health Insurance (80D)
Term Insurance
Life Insurance


Planning is for direction.

These Both are dangerous.
Over Planner: Will get demotivated if we don't acheive all of that. 
Under Planner: will regret a lot for all the things which has not done.

difficult, boring, 

Skills are Process to acheive goals.

Desire -> Goal -> Skill

Deserve before u desire.
-----------------------------------------------
Nutrition:

CUT Your junk foods, fried foods, oily foods, and sugar snacks & drinks,
EAT soaked almonds everyday in the empty stomach, its helps to lose weight and its good for skin, hair as well.
DRINK lots and lots of water in the empty stomach(morning) for better digestion,
SLEEP right time and wake up at the right time everyday,
AVOID Carbs in your diet plan,

Avoid foods that contain trans fats.
Reduce your salt intake

The most effective exercise to burn stomach fat is crunches. 
  Crunches rank top when we talk of fat-burning exercises. You can start by lying down flat with your knees bent and your feet on the ground
Drink green tea with honey every day morning before breakfast.
Do excercises like sit ups, plank and push up’s as these help reduce belly fat.
Walk at least 30 mins a day

https://twitter.com/warikoo/status/1281498178135756801?lang=ha
best excel for daily time logs planner

	
--------------------------------------------------

Pre-Conceived Notion: an opinion formed beforehand without adequate evidence, Concluding something without knowing much about it.
Synonyms: assumption, prejudgment

When I lost my excuses, I found the results.

epitome: perfect example

Being Shy is wrong, but being introvert is fine. understand the difference ..

vernacular language: Regional language medium like urdu medium.

E+R = O
Event+Response =  Outcome

Example: overweight + 30min walk = Some change
overweight + 30min walk + healthy food = big change
overweight + 30min walk + healthy food + Exercise in Gym = big big change

Don't talk like a looser.

Pain Vs Suffer 
(exercise, baby birth sweet pain)

if not manage properly, they'll suffer
1. Time
2. Money
3. Mindset (just stop thinking like a looser).

Have a goal, Formalise it, and Hit it.

1) Speak the leanguage of the land. even if it broke.
2) Confidence
3) Clarity of thought

When in meeting, just think about the stuff..

Don't apply rules and grammar and then speak.. just practice 

Listening...POrocessing...and Speaking...

Grammer is just for polishing the language.

good pronunciation always makes a good first impression.

Put yourself in their shoes and think...


tech Interview
--------------------
Testing and Automation skills
High level design concepts
Low level design concept
Documentation
Deployment concepts (jenkins, kubernate, )

1-2 coding language
OOPS Concepts
Coding principle
Design pattern
Sql concept

Interview skills :
Conceptualize or visualize your solution.
think small and solve big

Dynamic program: FInd min number of insertion to make string palindrome.
bcd: 2, (cd bcd)

First dry run, and create pseudo code.


Two pointer technique
Sliding window
Mathematical equation
Recursion and Backtracking
Hashing
Divide and Conquer
Greedy


System Design
------------------
Functional 
Non-Functional

HLD: (Bird Eye view)

	Microservice Pattern like SAGA Pattern
	Load balancer
	Reverse Proxy
	Forward proxy
	CDN
	REST, GraphQL
	SQL, NOSQL
	(e.g) Design Youtube
	
LLD:
    DB Normalization, ACID, CAP
    SOLID and STUPID Principle
    Class Design
    Index, Sharding	
	(e.g) Design Google calendar
	
	
	learn how to think as a software developer.
	
Behavioral Skills
---------------------
Communication skill
Interpersonal skill
Ownership 
Adaptability
Curiousity
Highest Standard (writing the code with your best knowledge) 
	
	
	
	
Advent of Code is an annual set of Christmas-themed computer programming challenges that follow an Advent calendar.
It has been running since 2015.

The programming puzzles cover a variety of skill sets and skill levels and can be solved using any programming language. 
Participants also compete based on speed on both global and private leaderboards.



Smart Tips: Soft skills
---------------------------
1) what is the diff between IQ and EQ? get explanation from chatGPT.
2) what is soft skills? example of it. and scenario. what's the consequence of not having it.
3)  difference between growth and fixed mindset.
4) Approaches to   embrace a growth mindset.
5) Adaptibility, flexiblility and resilience as soft skills.?

Resilience: It is the ability to handle challeneges or bounce back from a difficult situation. It is used to help manage disappointment.

Disappointment = Expectations minus Reality.

When a project encounters a problem. We figure out solutions, workarounds and fixes.
Personal resilience is utilizing those skills on the challenges that arise in your career.

Approaches to   embrace a growth mindset.
-----------------------------------------------
1) Acknowledge and embrace limitations in yourself and others.
2) Even though most of us want to hide our weaknesses, everyone has them.
And by taking stock of them, they can be addressed and overcome.
3) Value the process over the end result.
4)Growth comes at the end of your comfort zone.
5) Be willing to be a little scared.
6) Try some new approaches or take on new responsibilities when you start feeling nervous or anxious.
7)  

At the end of the day, strong personal bonds will support good decisions, reduce conflict and promote
a healthy work environment.
	
We all experienced setbacks and career successes guided by how we deal with adversity and move forward.

Most companies, even technical companies, now consider EQ as important, if not more important than IQ.
Technical professionals typically have no problem in the IQ department.

work harder and embrace challenges.

Immerse yourself in the topic, learn as much as you can, and become the go to person in your organization.

Devote the time and effort to develop true expertise.

Sudoku and crossword puzzles, Sudoku promotes strategic thinking and problem solving.
Crosswords require out of the box thinking, alternative solutions and riddle assessments.

To some, listening is as easy as falling from a boat and getting wet.

Truthfully, listening is a complicated skill, and it's muddled because of our internal biases.



As technical professionals, we often think our work should speak for itself.
Early in my career, all I worried about was getting my job done.
I was unconcerned and perhaps more importantly, unaware that just being technically competent or accomplished wasn't enough.

At some point, we all get called on to explain our work.
Describe our thinking or process.
Present our results are deliverables.
Advocate for next steps.
When that happens, technical professionals are often caught unprepared for those critical business
discussions that impact how they're viewed and overall career growth.

We communicate all day, every day, and our audiences will vary.
Communicating effectively means tailoring your communications accordingly.
Let's think about three audiences.
First, the technical professionals within your team.
Second, technical professionals outside of your team.
And third, non-technical professionals.

Each audience has a different level of understanding, interest, investment and need.
Each audience also comes in with expectations and will often just listen for what's important to them.
Just because a particular data point is interesting to you doesn't mean it'll be relevant to your audience.

A piece of advice I often give to young professionals is you have two years and one mouth.
Listen twice as much as you speak.

Don't believe it when your colleagues and co-workers claim that they never experience stress.

Henry Ford said "Improved productivity means less human sweat, not more."


Too often, the idea of asking for help is seen as a sign of weakness.
If I can't do this on my own, my boss may think I'm not capable,
We're not a team player.

Does this resonate for you and the story you tell yourself?
In reality, proactively asking for help is a sign of strength, since it combines your self-awareness
around your personal workload, consciousness of deadlines and interest in overall success.

My very insightful daughter taught me, you have to name it, to tame it.

The responsible person rolls up his or her sleeves and gets the work done.

KPI:

KPI stands for Key Performance Indicator. 
In the context of a job, KPIs are measurable metrics that are used to evaluate an employee's performance and determine if they are meeting the expectations set by their employer.

For example, if you work in a retail store, your KPIs might include the number of sales you make per day or the number of customers you assist. 
These KPIs help your employer determine if you are doing a good job and meeting their expectations.

KPIs are important because they give you a clear idea of what is expected of you and how your performance will be evaluated. By setting and achieving KPIs, 
you can demonstrate your value to your employer or organization and show that you are capable of meeting their expectations.

In simple terms, KPIs are like a scorecard that developers use to measure their performance and track their progress towards achieving specific goals or targets.

Team Work:

According to Steve Jobs, "Great things in business are never done by one person,
they're done by a team of people."
I agree with the sentiment completely.

Feedback:

Something happens when we hear a colleague, boss or team member say, "can I give you some feedback?"
I suspect it's a common feeling our minds begin to scramble for what we did wrong or who we ticked off
or some other personal transgression.

Getting feedback is scary, but integral to growth and improvement.
Getting past the scary part of proactively asking for feedback allows you to accelerate your growth,improve your performance and become more valuable within your organization.

Tips:
1) When in doubt, ask for clarification.
It seems simple, but often we just listen and nod, even if something is not clear.

2) Take in the information.
Consider it, reflect on the message and then respond.

3) The new role and responsibilities means you'll likely make some mistakes along the way.
That's OK.


team Meeting: 
Equally as important end on time.
So you don't impact someone else's meeting that may utilize the same room.

It's a sign of respect to those who show up on time and those outside of your team. As you work through

your agenda

if new topics arise, that would push time limits, use a virtual parking lot and schedule a follow

up meeting that also gives you a chance to think about who really needs to be in on that discussion.

Pareto Priniciple (80/20 Rule): 
-----------------------------------
The Pareto principle, also known as the 80/20 rule, states that 80% of the effects come from 20% of the causes. 
This means that a small percentage of inputs or activities often lead to a large percentage of the results or outputs.

For example, in business, it is often observed that 80% of a company's profits come from just 20% of its customers.

Another example could be that 80% of a person's happiness may come from just 20% of their activities or relationships.
 The exact percentages may vary, but the principle holds that a small portion of inputs or activities often lead to a large portion of results or outcomes.

The Pareto principle is often used as a tool for prioritizing tasks or resources, where focusing on the most important or impactful 20% can lead to significant improvements in overall results.

data vs storytelling
-------------------------
Research shows that a story is twenty two times more likely to stick with your audience than the data alone.

I know it may be disappointing.

We live for the data and the numbers, but alas, the cognitive psychologists have proven us wrong.

The left side of our brain is activated by facts data which helps identify patterns.

The right side is associate of creativity and intuition, which allows us to see the big picture.

A story bridges the two and stimulates a greater percentage of our brains, which promotes retention
and recall of information and experiences.

Career Progression
--------------------
There was a need for non-technical skills in navigating an organization.
You could try and fight the system, but in the end, you'll need these skills to deliver your projects,
manage your team and provide increased value to your organization.

Those skills include networking, professional presence, critical thinking, and empathy.


To explore
---------------
1) what is the mentor role? how to approach for online mentor.
2) what is creativity, example, how to improve our creative skills.
3) explore on RACI model, which is used for team meetings.
4) what is critical thinking? how to improve it
5) what is networking. tips? and why ?


