
Self - Confidence
---------------------
Being confident about your strengths helps you draw courage and resolution when the going gets tough in life.
 It helps you to keep things in perspective and back yourself when everyone else says that the task ahead is 
 nearly impossible to complete in the stipulated time.

A confident person has enough ability to understand his limitations and knows how to make up for that with his resolve and strengths.

Self-Confidence Vs. Self-Esteem
----------------------------------
The word esteem comes from the word estimate which means to grade yourself on a standard.
 Self-esteem means to evaluate your own value and contribution in your professional and personal life.
 
 self-esteem is thinking of your worth in relation to the world. On the contrary, self-confidence is your positive self-assessment in performing a task.
 
 Self-esteem: “I am a person who has worth and value.” Self esteem is self worth in own view. It depends on our feelings about 
 our efficiency. 
 I can do it, means high esteem. I can't do it, means low self esteem. It corresponds with self confidence.

Self-confidence: “I have the ability to do the things I want to do if I put my mind to it.”

Is it possible to have one without the other?
----------------------------------------------
These two terms do not always occur together, but it is entirely possible to feel self-confident in your abilities while
 having a low self-esteem. For instance, an Olympic swimmer or a movie celebrity might have a lot of confidence in their talent,
 but at the same time, might be doubting their worth.

However, having a higher self-confidence in specific areas of life, increases the overall sense of self-worth,
 making it possible to work both of them together at the same time.
 
 Traits of Self-Confident people
 --------------------------------
 eople with high self-confidence approach their problems differently as compared to others.Confident people love expressing their ideas in front of others,
 as they are emotionally secure enough to take constructive criticisms and reject emotional ones.
 
  a self-confident person has the humility to acknowledge his mistakes and learn from them when he fails. This objective approach towards both success and 
  failure is what makes a confident person a lovable and respectable personality.