Kubernetes
----------------
 Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration platform that automates the deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.
 
 Kubernetes is a platform that helps you manage applications that are made up of lots of different parts
 (like databases, front-end systems, etc.) by organizing them into something called "containers."
 
 In tech terms, Kubernetes automates the deployment, scaling, and management of applications.
 It helps ensure that your apps are always running efficiently, even if something goes wrong, by quickly fixing issues behind the scenes.

Orchestration means: In Kubernetes, "orchestration" refers to the automated management and coordination of containerized applications.
 
Orchestration involves managing the lifecycle of containers, including their deployment, scaling, networking, storage, and monitoring

Think of it like a conductor leading an orchestra to ensure that all musicians play in harmony. Similarly,
 Kubernetes orchestrates various components of your application to ensure they work together efficiently.
 
 
Analogy:
---------------
Imagine you run a fast-food restaurant. Each meal order (burger, fries, soda) needs to be prepared in different stations, 
like a grill, a fryer, and a drink machine. You want everything to be prepared quickly and at the same time so the customer gets a hot meal.

In this analogy:

Containers are like the individual cooking stations (grill, fryer, drink machine). 
Each container focuses on doing one thing, like making fries or grilling burgers.

Kubernetes is like the restaurant manager. It makes sure all stations are running smoothly,
 food is prepared on time, and if a machine (container) breaks, Kubernetes can quickly replace it with a new one, so the restaurant keeps running without delays. 
 
Why Kubernetes?
--------------------
Simplified Deployment

Automated Scaling and Load Balancing

Self-Healing and Fault Tolerance 

Rollouts and Rollbacks

High availability with technically no downtime

Kubernetes makes it easier to develop, deploy, and manage applications, allowing developers and operations teams to
 focus more on delivering value and less on infrastructure management.
 
Summary of Challenges Before Kubernetes:
-------------------------------------------
Scaling was manual or semi-automated but far from seamless.
Deployment consistency was hard to achieve across environments (development, testing, production).
Resource utilization was inefficient, especially when using VMs.
Application resilience (self-healing, failover) was complex to set up.
Management overhead: Developers and sysadmins spent a lot of time configuring, managing, and monitoring infrastructure. 
 
 
Components of Kubernetes?
---------------------------
1) Node (Machine in which our application has deployed)

2) Pods (In Kubernetes (K8s), a pod is the smallest deployable unit and the basic building block of the platform. Each Pod has its own IP address, 
Each POD can communicate using These IP addresses, It can crash. )

3) Services (a service provides a consistent and reliable way to access and communicate with a group of pods)
Types:
ClusterIP: This is the default service type. It exposes the service on an internal IP within the cluster, and it is only accessible from within the cluster.

NodePort: This type exposes the service on a specific port of each cluster node's IP address. It makes the service accessible from outside the cluster by using the node's IP address and the assigned NodePort.

Load Balancer: This type provisions an external load balancer (e.g., from a cloud provider) that directs traffic to the service. It automatically assigns an external IP address, making the service accessible from outside the cluster.




4) Ingress

5) Config maps: (ConfigMap is used to store configuration data that can be consumed by containers running in pods. like databaseUrl, otehr links,
It provides a way to decouple the configuration from the application code, allowing for easy configuration changes without modifying the container image.
Else every time you have to  rebuild the application  then  push it to the repository and then pull that new image in your pod and restart the whole thing)
(stores sensitive data)

6) Secrets:  (secret is just like config map but the difference is that it's used to store secret data credentials for example and 
it's stored not in a plain text format of course but in base64 encoded format. like API keys, tokens, or certificates)
(stores sensitive data)

7) Volumes:  (Volumes are a way to provide persistent storage to containers running in pods . It plays a crucial role in managing and persisting data in Kubernetes.
They enable containers to work with shared and persistent storage, allowing for data integrity, data sharing between containers, and reliable data storage beyond the lifecycle of individual containers.
Means even if your DB Pod crashes, your data is safe in volumes . 
If you don’t use them, then your data will reside in PODs. Pods are designed to be crashable units and when they crash, all your data is gone !!)


8) Deployments (Deployment in Kubernetes is like a blueprint or set of instructions for running and managing your application. 
hink of a Deployment as a manager for your application. It ensures that the desired number of copies of your application are always running, even if a pod or node fails. 
If you want to scale your application, you can simply tell the Deployment to add more replicas, and it will automatically create and manage them for you.)

9) Stateful set:
StatefulSet in Kubernetes is a way to manage applications that need to maintain their identity and persist data, such as databases. 
StatefulSets also ensure that each pod has its own persistent storage, so data can be stored and retrieved even if the pod is terminated or moved to a different node.
 This is important for applications that need to keep their data intact, like databases.
StatefulSets provide a way to deploy, scale, and update these stateful applications


Manifest Files
-----------------------
A Kubernetes manifest file is like a blueprint that tells Kubernetes how to set up and manage different parts of your application or system. 
It's written in a format called YAML or JSON.


A Kubernetes manifest file typically includes definitions for various Kubernetes objects, such as deployments, services, pods, replica sets, config maps, secret and more. 
These objects represent the building blocks of your application or system and define how they should be created, configured, and orchestrated within the Kubernetes cluster.

If we have two files like manifest deployment file and application.properties file. It give preference to manifest file.

Why kubernetes files is needed ?

Automation and Orchestration: Kubernetes uses manifest files to automate and orchestrate deployment, scaling, updating, and deletion of resources.
Collaboration and Sharing: Manifest files serve as a common language for teams, facilitating sharing, collaboration, and best practice adoption.
Resource Management: Manifest files define and manage various Kubernetes resources, specifying resource requirements, networking, storage, and other parameters.

		
What is Load Balancer ?

A load balancer is a networking device or software that distributes incoming network traffic across multiple servers, resources, or applications.

 It acts as a central point of contact for client requests and intelligently directs the traffic to the appropriate server or resource based on predefined rules or algorithms.

The primary purpose of a load balancer is to evenly distribute the workload across multiple servers, 
optimizing resource utilization and improving the performance and availability of applications or services.
 By spreading the traffic across multiple servers, a load balancer can handle a large number of concurrent requests, 
prevent any single server from being overwhelmed, and ensure that the system can scale horizontally to accommodate increasing demand.



what is Ingress
----------------------
Ingress: It acts as an entry point for external requests. It will redirect the request to the other microservices
Ingress allows you to define routing rules based on hostnames, paths, or other criteria to direct incoming traffic to the appropriate services within the cluster.

ALB (Application Load Balancer):
By using the AWS Load Balancer Controller, you can define rules for how traffic should be directed to your applications,
 and the controller takes care of creating and managing the load balancers to handle the traffic effectively.

from Angular, we'll hit only k8 gemerated URL (BaseUrl). eventually it will trigger the other microservices Pods which is deployed in kubernetes clusters (AWS EKS).


food-order-services
, microservice, food catalog, microservice

user service and order service.
1. restaurant listing
2.  food catalog
3. user service
4. order service.
5. Front end application
6. secret
7. configMap.
8. Eureka Server.


What is Argo CD
------------------------
Argo CD is an open-source continuous delivery (CD) tool specifically designed for Kubernetes-based applications. 
It helps developers automate the deployment and management of applications in a Kubernetes cluster.

If you have a bunch of applications, like websites or web services, that you want to run on a Kubernetes system.
 Instead of manually setting up and managing everything, which can be time-consuming and prone to errors, you can use Argo CD.

With Argo CD, you can tell it how you want your applications to be set up and configured using simple files like manifest files.


Argo CD continuously checks if everything is set up correctly based on the Manifest files. 
If there are any changes or updates to be made, Argo CD automatically applies them to the Kubernetes system. 
It ensures that your applications are always running as you want them to be, without you having to worry about it.

Argo CD also helps you roll back to a previous version if something goes wrong. 

In simple terms, Argo CD is like having a reliable assistant that understands your application's needs and 
takes care of deploying and managing them in a Kubernetes system. It saves you time, reduces errors, and makes sure your applications are always running smoothly.
 





Installation command
------------------------------
Maven:
        sudo yum update
        sudo yum install -y maven
        mvn -version
    
Install Amazon Corretto JDK 11:
sudo yum install java-11-amazon-corretto-headless
Update the system, install Docker, and configure it to start on system boot:
        sudo yum update -y
        sudo yum install -y docker
        sudo service docker start
        sudo chkconfig docker on 
    
Download Jenkins repository configuration, install Jenkins, and start it:
        sudo wget -O /etc/yum.repos.d/jenkins.repo https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.repo
        sudo rpm --import https://pkg.jenkins.io/redhat-stable/jenkins.io-2023.key
        sudo yum install jenkins -y
        sudo systemctl enable jenkins
        sudo systemctl start jenkins
    
Install NVM (Node Version Manager) and Node.js version 16:
        curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nvm-sh/nvm/v0.39.3/install.sh | bash
        . ~/.nvm/nvm.sh
        nvm install 16
    
Install Git:
sudo yum install -y git
Check the status of Jenkins service:
sudo systemctl status jenkins
Retrieve the initial admin password for Jenkins:
sudo cat /var/lib/jenkins/secrets/initialAdminPassword
Add Jenkins user to the docker group to grant access:
sudo usermod -aG docker jenkins
Run SonarQube in Docker container:
docker run -d -p 9000:9000 --name sonarqube sonarqube
Check the logs of the SonarQube container:
docker logs -f sonarqube



 